README.md, before:

# @renegade/react-fields
*React Field Management*

As with anything node/React, there are a thousand ways to complete the same 
task. But the amount of choice and freedom is a double-edged sword - finding a 
solution that is testable, simple, easy-to-use, robust and traceable can be 
hard. 

*So to solve the challenge of flexible form validation, we made **react-fields**!*

Detail
---

### What does it do?

**react-fields** is a small form field library that provides a structured way
to manage data and validation through containers and simple fields. It provides
a FieldContainer class that defines the structure and behaviours required to 
connect fields to a validation and data management process.


### How does it work?

```js
import { FieldContainer } from "@renegade/react-fields"



class ClientContainer extends FieldContainer {

  constructor(props) {
    super(props)

    this.state = {
      firstName: "Adam",
      lastName: "Power"
    }

    this.rules = {
      firstName: { required: true },
      lastName:  { required: true },
      budget:    { type: "number", max: 10000, min: 0 }
    }
  }
  
  
  
  render() {
    const connectField = this.connectField // Just for convenience

    return (
      <div>
        <InputField {...connectField("firstName")} />
        <InputField {...connectField("lastname")} />
        <InputField {...connectField("budget")} />
        <Button disabled={!this.formValid} onClick={() => this.onSubmit(this.state)}>Submit</Button>
      </div>
    )
  }

}
```

Let's look at the basics here.

A validation process requires **rules**. To keep things simple and contextual, we 
provide these rules per field in the constructor of our container.

We then use **connectField** to pass these rules back into our fields, along 
with an onChange(event) method and the field value as per the current state. So 
what we've written above for our *budget* field is simply shorthand for:

```js
<InputField 
  onChange={event => this.onFieldChange("budget", event.target.value)} 
  value={this.state.budget} 
  error={this.errors.budget}
  type="number" 
  max={10000} 
  min={0} 
/>
```

A little bit of sugar is good from time to time, plus while DRY principles
aren't always the silver bullet we may wish they were, they certainly help us
with consistency, speed and maintainability in our code.


### Why are we using state?

Bring on the state vs store debate! We enjoy a good argument about whether state
or a store (ie. redux) should be used to facilitate processes, though the
consensus seems to be that if the data is transient - if we're expecting it to 
change constantly - it belongs in state.

The best example is an `<input>` field. It retains its value in its own DOM 
state, because that value only has meaning once something else (ie. a form, or
a script) requests the value. Until then, it's still work in progress.

In much the same way, our FieldContainer has no meaning until the form is 
submitted. Once it's submitted, then we pass through meaningful data.


### What do fields do then?

As you can see from the long-hand InputField element declaration above, the 
props that are passed during a connect are consistent with a standard HTML5 
`<input>` element, with the exception of our `error` prop which provides the 
error message to be displayed.

```js
export const InputField = ({ error, ...inputProps }) => (
  <div className="field">
    <input {...inputProps} />
    { !!error && <span className="field-error">{error}</span> }
  </div>
)
```

Stay tuned - we will provide some super handy implementations for fields soon.

API
---

### FieldContainer

React.Component base class for any container that needs to use **react-fields**.

#### this.rules

Set in the constructor of the subclass, this is a map of field names to field 
rules and their specifications. Example:

```js
export class MyContainer extends FieldContainer {
  
  constructor(props) {
    super(props)
    this.rules = {
      sample: { required: true },
      "my.nested.field": { max: 20, min: 10 }
    }
  }
  
}
```

These rules and their specifications will also be applied to the relevant 
component during the connect process.

#### this.connectField(fieldName)

Generates a set of props specific to a field that will enable validation and 
data flow, as well as set any defined rules.

```js
export class MyContainer extends FieldContainer {
  
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <MyInputField {...this.connectField("my.nested.field")} />
      </div>
    )
  }

}
```

The call `this.connectField("my.nested.field")` simply generates an object that
looks like this:

```js
{
  error: this.errors["my.nested.field"],
  onChange: event => this.onFieldChange("my.nested.field", event.target.value),
  value: get(this.state, "my.nested.field")
  ...this.rules["my.nested.field"]
}
```

Where `get` is the lodash get method.


#### this.onFieldChange(name, value)

Handles a change to an input field value by first validating it then updating
the value in the state.


#### this.validateField(name, value)

Validates the given value against any rules set for the given field name. The 
message generated for an invalid value will be the first rule to fail. A 
corresponding entry in `this.errors` is created with that message, to be used 
later in rendering.


#### this.updateField(name, value)

Simply updates the value within the state using immutability and dot notation 
nesting.


#### this.errors

A field-name-indexed lookup of any error messages generated from validation 
processes. No errors means the form is valid.


#### this.formValid

Whether or not the fields in the container are all valid.

Commit message:

Custom Validators
- Enable custom validation via FieldContainer validators attribute

README.md, after:

# @renegade/react-fields
*React Field Management*

As with anything node/React, there are a thousand ways to complete the same 
task. But the amount of choice and freedom is a double-edged sword - finding a 
solution that is testable, simple, easy-to-use, robust and traceable can be 
hard. 

*So to solve the challenge of flexible form validation, we made **react-fields**!*

Detail
---

### What does it do?

**react-fields** is a small form field library that provides a structured way
to manage data and validation through containers and simple fields. It provides
a FieldContainer class that defines the structure and behaviours required to 
connect fields to a validation and data management process.


### How does it work?

```js
import { FieldContainer } from "@renegade/react-fields"



class ClientContainer extends FieldContainer {

  constructor(props) {
    super(props)

    this.state = {
      firstName: "Adam",
      lastName: "Power"
    }

    this.rules = {
      firstName: { required: true },
      lastName:  { required: true },
      budget:    { type: "number", max: 10000, min: 0 }
    }
  }
  
  
  
  render() {
    const connectField = this.connectField // Just for convenience

    return (
      <div>
        <InputField {...connectField("firstName")} />
        <InputField {...connectField("lastname")} />
        <InputField {...connectField("budget")} />
        <Button disabled={!this.formValid} onClick={() => this.onSubmit(this.state)}>Submit</Button>
      </div>
    )
  }

}
```

Let's look at the basics here.

A validation process requires **rules**. To keep things simple and contextual, we 
provide these rules per field in the constructor of our container.

We then use **connectField** to pass these rules back into our fields, along 
with an onChange(event) method and the field value as per the current state. So 
what we've written above for our *budget* field is simply shorthand for:

```js
<InputField 
  onChange={event => this.onFieldChange("budget", event.target.value)} 
  value={this.state.budget} 
  error={this.errors.budget}
  type="number" 
  max={10000} 
  min={0} 
/>
```

A little bit of sugar is good from time to time, plus while DRY principles
aren't always the silver bullet we may wish they were, they certainly help us
with consistency, speed and maintainability in our code.


### Why are we using state?

Bring on the state vs store debate! We enjoy a good argument about whether state
or a store (ie. redux) should be used to facilitate processes, though the
consensus seems to be that if the data is transient - if we're expecting it to 
change constantly - it belongs in state.

The best example is an `<input>` field. It retains its value in its own DOM 
state, because that value only has meaning once something else (ie. a form, or
a script) requests the value. Until then, it's still work in progress.

In much the same way, our FieldContainer has no meaning until the form is 
submitted. Once it's submitted, then we pass through meaningful data.


### What do fields do then?

As you can see from the long-hand InputField element declaration above, the 
props that are passed during a connect are consistent with a standard HTML5 
`<input>` element, with the exception of our `error` prop which provides the 
error message to be displayed.

```js
export const InputField = ({ error, ...inputProps }) => (
  <div className="field">
    <input {...inputProps} />
    { !!error && <span className="field-error">{error}</span> }
  </div>
)
```

Stay tuned - we will provide some super handy implementations for fields soon.


### Can I add my own validators?

Was hoping you'd ask! Absolutely you can!

The validators available to your FieldContainer are accessible and modifiable through the validators prop. To add your own, simply define it in your constructor and you're good to go:

```js
import { FieldContainer } from "@renegade/react-fields"



class ClientContainer extends FieldContainer {

  constructor(props) {
    super(props)

    this.validators.bananaCount = (value, count) => (value.match(/banana/g) || []).length === count
      ? undefined
      : `Incorrect bananae, expected ${count}`
  }

}
```

This will only be used within the defined FieldContainer, so if you find yourself re-using these, it might be worth defining common validators in a separate file and importing + appending to the validators attribute as required.


API
---

### FieldContainer

React.Component base class for any container that needs to use **react-fields**.

#### this.rules

Set in the constructor of the subclass, this is a map of field names to field 
rules and their specifications. Example:

```js
export class MyContainer extends FieldContainer {
  
  constructor(props) {
    super(props)
    this.rules = {
      sample: { required: true },
      "my.nested.field": { max: 20, min: 10 }
    }
  }
  
}
```

These rules and their specifications will also be applied to the relevant 
component during the connect process.

#### this.connectField(fieldName)

Generates a set of props specific to a field that will enable validation and 
data flow, as well as set any defined rules.

```js
export class MyContainer extends FieldContainer {
  
  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <MyInputField {...this.connectField("my.nested.field")} />
      </div>
    )
  }

}
```

The call `this.connectField("my.nested.field")` simply generates an object that
looks like this:

```js
{
  error: this.errors["my.nested.field"],
  onChange: event => this.onFieldChange("my.nested.field", event.target.value),
  value: get(this.state, "my.nested.field")
  ...this.rules["my.nested.field"]
}
```

Where `get` is the lodash get method.


#### this.onFieldChange(name, value)

Handles a change to an input field value by first validating it then updating
the value in the state.


#### this.validateField(name, value)

Validates the given value against any rules set for the given field name. The 
message generated for an invalid value will be the first rule to fail. A 
corresponding entry in `this.errors` is created with that message, to be used 
later in rendering.


#### this.updateField(name, value)

Simply updates the value within the state using immutability and dot notation 
nesting.


#### this.errors

A field-name-indexed lookup of any error messages generated from validation 
processes. No errors means the form is valid.


#### this.formValid

Whether or not the fields in the container are all valid.
